update search_elastic (#527)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/general_topics/search.adoc

= Full Text Search 
:toc: right
:toclevels: 4
:page_aliases: configuration/search/index.adoc
:elastic-search-url: https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/
:elastic-search-install-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack/7.17/index.html
:search_elastic-app-url: {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/search_elastic 
:simple-query-string-query-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-simple-query-string-query.html
:ingest-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/current/ingest-attachment.html
:create-api-key-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-api-create-api-key.html#security-api-create-api-key

> :description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app and a Search Elastic Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.

Reviewer: "an Elasticsearch Server"?

Author: fixed, thanks for catching 👍

Reviewer: Not really, its still `to a Search Elastic Server`

Author: fixed, thanks

> :description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app and a Search Elastic Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to a Search Elastic Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.
```

> :description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to a Search Elastic Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.

Author: ```suggestion
:description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to an Elasticsearch  Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.
```

> :description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to an Elasticsearch  Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to an Elasticsearch Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.
```

== Introduction

{description}

> The {search_elastic-app-url}[Full Text Search] app integrates full text search into ownCloud, powered by Elasticsearch. This document describes the how to setup the ownCloud part of the Full Text Search app.

Reviewer 3: `the` should be removed
```suggestion
The {search_elastic-app-url}[Full Text Search] app integrates full text search into ownCloud, powered by Elasticsearch. This document describes how to setup the ownCloud part of the Full Text Search app.
```

== Prerequisites

> . A fully functioning {elastic-search-url}[Elasticsearch Server 7], follow the {elastic-search-install-url}[Installation and Upgrade Guide] for your environment.

Reviewer 3: I would start a new sentence here.
```suggestion
. A fully functioning {elastic-search-url}[Elasticsearch Server 7]. Follow the {elastic-search-install-url}[Installation and Upgrade Guide] for your environment.
```

Reviewer 3: Will be moved to another PR

+
[NOTE]
====
* Version 1.0.0 of the Full Text Search app only works with Elasticsearch version 5.6.

> * With version +2.0.0 of the app, Elasticsearch version 7 is supported and required.

Reviewer 3: I would use `>=` here
```suggestion
* With version >=2.0.0 of the app, Elasticsearch version 7 is supported and required.
```

Reviewer 3: Will be moved to another PR.

=== Authentication Methods

Independent of the authentication method selected below, you need to provide the URL of the Elasticsearch server. For any of the authentication methods selected, your Elasticsearch server must be prepared upfront.

For the URL, both `HTTP` and `HTTPS` incuding the address and port can be used. 

The app provides several authentication methods, select one of your choice, see the details for an authentication method below:

image:apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_auth_items.png[Auth Items,width=450]

==== No Authentication

When using `No Authentication`, just fill in the URL of the ES server.

image:apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_no_auth.png[No Auth,width=350]

==== User / Password Authentication

When using `User / Password Authentication`, enter the credentials the ES server was setup. Note that the password will be stored encrypted in the ownCloud database.

image:apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_u_p_auth.png[User / Password Auth,width=350]

==== API Key Authentication

When using `API Key Authentication`, enter the API Key the ES server was setup.

image:apps/search_elastic/search_elastic_api_key_auth.png[API Key Auth,width=350]

> IMPORTANT: The API Key used needs to be the _encoded_, *not* the _api_key_ string. For details see the {create-api-key-url}[Create API key API] at the ES documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: The API Key needs to be the _encoded_ one, *not* the _api_key_ string. For details see the {create-api-key-url}[Create API key API] at the ES documentation.
```

=== Search External Storage

> Define if external storage should be included in ES indexing by setting the checkmark accordingly with btn:[Scan external Storages]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Define if external storage should be included in ES indexing by setting the checkmark accordingly with btn:[Scan external Storages].
```

=== Save the Configuration

Save the configuration with the btn:[Save configuration] button.

> === Setup the ES Index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Set up the ES Index
```

> When everything is setup, you can click the button btn:[Setup index] which will tell the ES server to create the plain empty index and other related internal settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When everything is set up, you can click the button btn:[Setup index] which will tell the ES server to create the plain empty index and other related internal settings.
```

> NOTE: This step is important, because the red dot will turn green showing that everything has been setup correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: This step is important to make the red dot turn green showing that everything has been setup correctly.
```

=== Passive Mode

To do an initial full indexing without the app interfering it, it can be put in _passive_ mode::
+
* The administrator can run occ commands changing the search configuration without notice to the users.
* The app will not index any changes by itself.
* Search results will still be based on ownCloud core database queries.

=== Changing the App Mode

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set \
    search_elastic mode --value passive
----

or

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set \
    search_elastic mode --value active
----

== Restrict Search Results

=== Index Metadata Only

If you only want to use the Full Text Search app as a more scalable search on filenames, you can disable content indexing by setting the option `nocontent` to `true`, which defaults to `false`:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set \
    search_elastic nocontent --value true
----

[NOTE]
====
* You have to reindex all files if you change this back to `false`. Setting it to `true` does not require reindexing.

> * It may be a maybe a more flexible way to go with limiting full text search to certain groups by setting the option `group.nocontent`, see xref:limit-metadata-search-for-groups[below] for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It may be a more flexible way to go with limiting full text search to certain groups by setting the option `group.nocontent`, see xref:limit-metadata-search-for-groups[below] for details.
```

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set \
    search_elastic group.nocontent \
    --value nofulltext
----

You can also configure multiple groups by separating them with comma:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set \
    search_elastic group.nocontent \
    --value nofulltext,anothergroup,"group with blanks"
----

This allows a scalable search in shared files without clouding the results with content based hits.

== Create the Index

When everything has been setup and configured, you can initiate creating the index. This must be done with an occ command. Depending on using _active_ or _passive_ mode, you either have to:

* *active mode*: wait until the job has finished and search is available to users, or
* *passive mode*: users continue to search with ownCloud embedded search and you switch over to active mode when the occ command has finished indexing.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} search:index:create
----

== Issues

> When the Elasticsearch server is down or the index has not been setup, you may get following info. Check if the ES server is reachable or if the index was setup properly as one solution to fix the issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the Elasticsearch server is down or the index has not been setup, you may get the following message. Check if the ES server is reachable or if the index was setup properly as one solution to fix the issue.
```

Reviewer 3: Will be moved to another PR.

:ingest-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/current/ingest-attachment.html
:create-api-key-url: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-api-create-api-key.html#security-api-create-api-key

> :description: ownCloud offers the ability to use full text search via the Full Text Search app connecting to an Elasticsearch  Server. This allows users to search not only for file names but also for content within files stored in ownCloud.

Reviewer: Now there are two whitespaces :smile:

Reviewer 2: Fixed now.
